Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture.
Let's keep going and let's continue with the question number five.
So here I'm asking you for each of the students listed below.
I want you to calculate the average mark for the midterm and final exams so simply you just got to go
an average these two values and put the average in a separate dictionary along with the student I.D..
So basically extract the student I.D. and put the average of these two numbers in a separate dictionary.
OK.
Let's get started and see how can we do this.
Let's create a couple of lines in here.
And the first step is I wanted to access the these two elements.
How can it access these two elements.
We can do that by saying.
Let's get started.
So first of all this is kind of you know like a little bit different.
You know that we have view with that we're used to here we have the lists as to details actually ilist.
Right.
And inside that list there is an actually a dictionary for each of these elements in here which is kind
of unique.
Now we have you know like a list that each list has a dictionary so we need to combine your knowledge
of lists and dictionaries to get it.
Let's get started.
All right.
So let's get started.
So let's assume they're going to go ahead and let's say run the self first and go here and start to
access the different elements.
Let's see how can we access different elements within the list that has dictionaries in it.
So I say.
Student underscored details open here.
And then they say okay I need to access the first element number zero.
If I do this you would come up with an actual dictionary which is the physics of that one.
Got.
Which is pretty straight forward maaseik.
I wanted to access a second element within the lists you'd come up with an idea to which is you know
the second row in here which is great.
And if I want to go here and do too you come up with this.
OK.
That's great.
That's for Ista.
Okay that's good.
And let's assume they wanted to access for example this midterm.
I can exit again using the exact same idea that we have them before using its key on an x is the value
60 I can use the key to open this door simply massive scale organ and go ahead to mid term.
Okay.
And that should return my value of 60.
So now I know how can I access it lists.
And is specific value of the dictionary within that list.
All right.
So it took in the average I need to do this an at plus an again in sort of midterm.
I wanted to access the final someone to give the mid-term Closs the final one out in the average.
Are you that going to say okay.
Open here brackets and again here brackets.
They've been asked in the summation and the right way to.
That should give me the average.
I'm going to say okay that's a quality average underscored one for a student for his student.
And if I don't that you can again view here the average one that would come up 17 2.5 looks pretty look
make sense he average 60 plus 85 might be seventy two point five looks good.
Let's do that for all of all value.
So going to do this.
Copy and paste it three times what you're going to do average to an average three for all students here
can access the student number one.
And he just put in number one the key value pair of scissors in chains and terman final day of the same
for the second student.
Engler Do the same as well for their students which is great.
All right.
Okay.
Oh my apologies.
This will going to be number two.
OK.
Looks great.
Average one two and three.
Looks great it looks perfect.
If I had on this then I should come with all of them.
And what I need to do here is one or two let's say if I wanted to view average to you come up with a
different number it looks good.
Every three run it looks anything up with five looks perfect.
All right.
So what I need to do here.
I wanted to create our new dictionary with all the student I.D. along with the the average values.
Let's see how can you do this.
I'm going to say okay my underscore average equals two which is my new Simply list that has diction
and is in it.
Let's create a dictionary.
The first element within the dictionary has again student I.D. student when a college student I.D. or
a student I.D. will take the first value which is one right.
That's the first step.
OK.
Which is a single exim idea that we have here.
It's first element.
And within the first again dictionary I'm going to assign the value of average.
Right.
And I'm going to assign here to the average one or a Colin and then I pass along this value which is
that we have got you average one.
So basically here I'm creating again.
It's pretty.
That suit would be very clear for you guys.
Again I'm creating a list and that list has a dictionary that dictionary has as good an idea.
Along with the average afterwards Kate looks great.
And to create a new element in the Alaskan create do comma.
And I'm going to go here a copy of this.
Based here.
And I'm going to call their still I.D. as well.
The same key.
Correct.
But here I'm going to call it a good idea to end air.
We're going to be average to karma and I'm going to do the same thing and are going to go here.
And I'm going to call this soon in 93 with average value of three or eight.
Looks good to me.
I hope it didn't make any mistakes.
We can actually do this like this so we can you know like make it a little bit more readable for us.
We can even do this too if you want it to just to make it you know.
OK.
Now we know that there is a list and that list has see the action that is in it.
It.
Let's run it.
Looks good to me.
And then we can simply go here and print our my average print my on the score average.
If I add on that then you would come up with basically as to an idea with the average value which is
exactly what am asking you to do.
One last point that I wanted to outline here is that there is a specific model.
It's what we call it P print.
Okay so let's see how can we do that it's just going to help us you know do you print that dictionary
in a pretty For OK.
It's can we do that.
Okay.
From preprint K import.
P print and when I'm going to do healing is say instead of print basically the exact same comment.
But instead of doing this I was going to copy that thing and I say it's pea print instead of print.
That's it.
And that's you'll find that basically here you're plotted one in a pretty ways as kind of you know to
be more readable for you which is pretty equal.
Pretty interesting.
The next question that we have here.
Question 6 is I want to repeat the previous exercise.
But at the average in a new dictionary line with an average as a key.
OK so how can we do that.
So basically I wanted to go ahead here do the exact same stuff such as going to go here at the exact
same lines in here.
OK.
So going to go here and then the exact same elements.
But instead of adding them in a separate dictionary and wanted to create in you item or in you basically
key value pair.
OK.
This is called average in the exact same or additional dictionary's exact same stool in details dictionary.
So going to say here come here say OK I need my student details that's what I wanted to address but
I wanted to create in you basically.
Key cut of all account the crow here within that.
And in here I'm just going to call it simply for the first element for the second element for this third
element.
N I'm going to create simply in you.
Key here.
Associated with it.
I'm going to call that key average.
That's it.
Average.
We're going to call it average and he's going to call it as well.
Right.
And that's pretty much again gave the average value for each of the students and create again in you
key value pair.
That's called average within the student index of 0 and 1 and 2.
And let's run that's should be looked good to me and let's for example print my eyes to the details
which is what we have here.
Let's print it and let's print let's say the first element within the list printed.
You'll find that they actually have a sort of idea of my subject maths midterm sorry final.
And that is an additional element that has the final average along with the final average value in here.
All right.
Perfect.
The next question that we have.
Question 7 is that we wanted to square each element in our phone dictionary to a have a dictionary that
basically has an element key value pair.
But in the value I have the list is a single value and Y and what I'm asking you to do is to simply
go ahead and take each of these elements and simply Square them.
How can we do that.
What we could do here and say okay in order to square the elements I'm going to say okay I need to access
elements first to access them.
I'm going to go here go to my dictionary OK and to access the first element say okay I need to access
the first element which is has one.
That's my first element and in order to access simply this one this element has an index of zero within
my list.
To do that I mean to say OK see one end of value of zero right.
This is basic and can be determined.
Let's print that list see what that number for don't get a squaring.
Let's see what an American is to get into intent which looks good for an extra second element within
the list defined and that that means you can come up with 20.
Looks great.
If I do this we can come up with 30 which means this.
If I change this and make it let's see to an M.
Come he didn't make it 0 4 on it.
You'll come up with this value.
So now I know how can it access different elements when I have the lists in there in the value part
of the dictionary and it's how can we do that.
All right so now I know how can it access the elements right.
So in order to do it what it could do here and say okay I need to access my first element of a 0 which
has this element.
Then I take it and square it.
That's how I look in the square of the first element to square the second element.
We're going to copy the exact same one.
And I'm going to copy again the third one so.
Okay okay see 1 or zero see one or one and see one of two.
And I'm going to quit all of them and all that answers are just going to put them in a big list here.
All right so now I have the list that has all the square elements ready.
And I wanted to simply put that in.
Let's say override my dictionary.
How can I do this.
And I say okay I'm going to go to my dictionary gay dictionary and I'm going I'm going to do here and
say OK.
I went over right the value of C1.
So go to the value of my dictionary.
See one day all the elements and simply Square them.
All right let's see.
For more on this.
And if that's an if I wanted to let's say print.
My dictionary.
Are in for it.
I'm it.
You would find that basically if you took the elements and you square them.
She didn't touch the setu because you haven't done anything to see too.
But is the concept is good you to do the tenney's quoted comes 100 years to the 20s.
Basically I'm sort of square to get your pain.
The swelling it's debased queing 20 becomes 400 and swilling 30 becomes comes 900.
Right.
Okay so how can we do that.
The first one it's pretty simple you could do the exact same stuff here.
And we're going to do here.
Me this C2 and change this make it see to come here and make this CO2 and CO2 as well.
And let's try it again.
So the find the dictionary again again and that's how you simply obtain the squaring of all the elements
are right.
And that's pretty much all the half of the section.
I hope you guys enjoyed it.
And the next lecture we're going to keep going and answer questions eight and above.
I hope it has enjoyed it.
And see you in the next hour.